---
title: ' Quantum Query Complexity'
date: 2021-12-2
permalink: /posts/2021/11/quantum-computation/
tags:
  - quantum
---
Query Model
=====

In Query Model, our task is to compute the function $f(x_1,x_2,....,x_n)$ by accessing $x_i$ through quering the orcale. Oracles can be thought of as a 'black-box' by which you can access some information regarding the input, we don't really care about the internal setup in black-box, it can be easily constructed. To access input, algorithm is allowed to query the oracle to get information on input. Hence, the aim of the algorithm is to take minimum queries to compute $f(x)$ on any input $x$. The query complexity is used in deterministic as well as quantum algorithms.

Query Complexity
===

One should note that there is a difference between query complexity of an algorithm and that of a function. The query complexity of an algorithm would be the minimum number of queries that it takes to compute the function $f(x)$ on any input $x$. The query complexity of a function is the minimum number of queries that an optimal algorithm takes in order to compute function $f(x)$ on any input $x$.

Why Query Model?
===

Now you might ask, why do we really need to know about query complexity? That's a valid question to ask. There are couple of reasons that convince us to have an idea about query complexity. Firstly, it's easy to analyse and a lot of known quantum algorithms like Shor's algorithm and Grover's search are based on query model. Secondly, it gives us a bound on time complexity of an algorithm. Finding the time complexity of a quantum algorithm is a tricky task but it turns out that if we are able to find the query complexity of the algorithm than we know that time complexity is larger than query complexity and hence gets some idea about the time complexity of an algorithm.

